# Data directory
## Summary
This directory contains data files used by the ionBench package. The data is organized into subdirectories, each of which contains data for a specific problem. The subdirectories are:
* ___loewe2016___
* ___moreno2016___
* ___staircase___
* ___test___

The path to this directory can be loaded by using `ionbench.DATA_DIR`. This is where any generated data files will be stored.

## ___loewe2016___
This subdirectory contains the data for the Loewe 2016 problems. This data consists of Myokit *.mmt* files (*courtemanche-1998-ikr.mmt* and *courtemanche-1998-ikur.mmt*) for simulations and output data to train the models stored as *.csv* files (*ikr.csv* and *ikur.csv*). 

The *.csv* files are each 21320 lines long and contain only the current trace (no headers or time data). They can be generated by:
```python
import ionbench

ionbench.problems.loewe2016.generate_data(modelType='ikr')
ionbench.problems.loewe2016.generate_data(modelType='ikur')
```

## ___moreno2016___
This subdirectory contains the data for the Moreno 2016 INa problem. This data consists of a Myokit *.mmt* file (*moreno-2016-ina.mmt*) for simulations and output data to train the model stored as a *.csv* file (*ina.csv*).

The *.csv* file is 48 lines long, containing the summary statistics outputted by the model. It can be generated by:
```python
import ionbench

ionbench.problems.moreno2016.generate_data()
```

## ___staircase___
This subdirectory contains the data for the staircase HH (Hodgkin-Huxley) and MM (Markov Model) problems. This data consists of Myokit *.mmt* files (*beattie-2017-ikr-hh.mmt* for staircase HH and *fink-2008-ikr-mm.mmt* for staircase MM) for simulations and output data to train the models stored as *.csv* files (*dataHH.csv* and *dataMM.csv*).

The *.csv* files are each 30800 lines long and contain only the current trace (no headers or time data). They can be generated by:
```python
import ionbench

ionbench.problems.staircase.generate_data(modelType='HH')
ionbench.problems.staircase.generate_data(modelType='MM')
```

This subdirectory also contains the baseline voltage clamp protocols, stored in *staircase-pace.mmt*. This file contains the steps for the staircase protocol but not the ramps. The ramps are generated dynamically in the *staircase.py* file by altering the myokit models to use a different voltage function during the corresponding time window.

## ___test___
This subdirectory contains the data for the test problem. This problem is not used for benchmarking optimisers but is used to test ionBench. This problem does not store a myokit model file but does store its data in a *.csv* file (*test.csv*). The *.csv* file is 20 lines long and contains only the output data (no headers or time data). It can be generated by:
```python
import ionbench

ionbench.problems.test.generate_data()
```
